docs/guides/server/event-metrics.adoc, before:

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/kc.adoc" as kc>
<#import "/templates/options.adoc" as opts>
<#import "/templates/links.adoc" as links>

<@tmpl.guide
title="Enabling {project_name} Event Metrics"
summary="Learn how to enable and use {project_name} Event Metrics"
includedOptions="metrics-enabled">

== Enable event metrics

- To enable the event listener via the GUI interface, go to
. Click *Realm settings* in the menu.
. Click the *Events* tab.
. The *Event Listeners* configuration should have an entry named `micrometer-metrics`.

- To enable the event listener via the Keycloak CLI, such as when building a Docker container, use these commands.

* Linux:
+
[options="nowrap"]
----
$ kcadm.sh update events/config -r demorealm -s 'eventsListeners+=["micrometer-metrics"]'
----
* Windows:
+
[options="nowrap"]
----
c:\> kcadm update events/config -r demorealm -s "eventsListeners+=[\"micrometer-metrics\"]"
----

The snippet below is an example of a response:

[source]
----

# TYPE keycloak_simple_events counter
# HELP keycloak_simple_events The total number of Keycloak events
keycloak_simple_events_total{event="update_password",realm="master"} 1.0
keycloak_simple_events_total{event="update_credential",realm="master"} 1.0
# TYPE keycloak_events counter
# HELP keycloak_events The total number of Keycloak events
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="code_to_token",idp="",realm="master"} 6.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="logout",idp="",realm="master"} 2.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="login",idp="",realm="master"} 6.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="refresh_token",idp="",realm="master"} 2.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="client_not_found",error="client_not_found",event="login_error",idp="",realm="master"} 1.0
...
----


</@tmpl.guide>

Commit message:

Reworked to be a global metrics listener
Signed-off-by: Alexander Schwartz <aschwart@redhat.com>

docs/guides/server/event-metrics.adoc, after:

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/kc.adoc" as kc>
<#import "/templates/options.adoc" as opts>
<#import "/templates/links.adoc" as links>

<@tmpl.guide
title="Enabling {project_name} Event Metrics"
summary="Learn how to enable and use {project_name} Event Metrics"
includedOptions="metrics-enabled user-event-metrics-*">

== Enable event metrics

To start collecting metrics, enable the feature `user-event-metrics`, enable metrics, and enable the metrics for user events.

The following shows the required startup parameters:

<@kc.start parameters="--features=user-event-metrics --metrics-enabled=true --user-event-metrics-enabled=true ..."/>

There will be a separate metric for each realm, client and identity provider.
If your installation has a lot of them, you'll see a lot of individual metrics. To reduce the number of individual metrics created by them, you can limit the metrics dimension using the configuration option `user-event-metrics-tags`.

The following limits the tags to the realm tag:

The snippet below is an example of a response:

<@kc.start parameters="... --user-event-metrics-tags=realm ..."/>

// FIXME: Example might be outdated

[source]
----

# TYPE keycloak_simple_events counter
# HELP keycloak_simple_events The total number of Keycloak events
keycloak_simple_events_total{event="update_password",realm="master"} 1.0
keycloak_simple_events_total{event="update_credential",realm="master"} 1.0
# TYPE keycloak_events counter
# HELP keycloak_events The total number of Keycloak events
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="code_to_token",idp="",realm="master"} 6.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="logout",idp="",realm="master"} 2.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="login",idp="",realm="master"} 6.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="security-admin-console",error="",event="refresh_token",idp="",realm="master"} 2.0
keycloak_events_total{client_id="",error="client_not_found",event="login_error",idp="",realm="master"} 1.0
...
----


</@tmpl.guide>
